Migrating more Setup docs (#20)
umbraco/UmbracoCMSDocs: Articles/Setup/Install/Unattended-Install.md

---
v8-equivalent: "https://github.com/umbraco/UmbracoDocs/blob/main/Getting-Started/Setup/Install/Unattended-Install.md"
versionFrom: 9.0.0
verified-against: alpha-4
state: partial
updated-links: false
---

# Unattended Installs

In some cases, you might need to install one or multiple Umbraco instances automatically without having to run through the installation wizard to configure the instance.

You can use the **Unattended installs** feature to allow for quick installation and set up of Umbraco instances on something like Azure Web Apps.

This article will give you the details you need to install Umbraco unattended.

## Get clean install of Umbraco

> In order to get a clean instance of Umbraco either visit the [NuGet feed](https://www.nuget.org/packages/UmbracoCms/) or download a zip file directly from [Downloads](https://our.umbraco.com/download).

Reviewer: I guess we should mention the dotnet new template instead of this?

* Add the connection string using configuration.

Example in appsettings.json

```json
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "umbracoDbDSN": "server=localhost;database=UmbracoUnicore;user id=sa;password='P@ssw0rd'"
  }
}
```

## Enable the unattended installs feature

The unattended installs feature is disabled by default and in order to enable it, you need to add the following JSON object to a JSON configuration source.

```json
{
  "Umbraco": {
    "CMS": {
      "Unattended": {
        "InstallUnattended": true,
        "UnattendedUserName": "FRIENDLY_NAME",
        "UnattendedUserEmail": "EMAIL",
        "UnattendedUserPassword": "PASSWORD"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
Remember to set the value of `InstallUnattended` to `true`.

Alternatively you may set your configuration with Environment Variables or other means. Learn more about this in the [Microsoft .Net Core config documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/configuration/?view=aspnetcore-5.0#environment-variables).

The keys for this would then be as follows:
```
Umbraco__CMS_Unattended__InstallUnattended
Umbraco__CMS_Unattended__UnattendedUserName
Umbraco__CMS_Unattended__UnattendedUserEmail

> Umbraco__CMS_Unattended__UnattendedUserPassword

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Umbraco__CMS__Unattended__InstallUnattended
Umbraco__CMS__Unattended__UnattendedUserName
Umbraco__CMS__Unattended__UnattendedUserEmail
Umbraco__CMS__Unattended__UnattendedUserPassword
```

---
v8-equivalent: "https://github.com/umbraco/UmbracoDocs/blob/main/Getting-Started/Setup/Install/Unattended-Install.md"
versionFrom: 9.0.0
verified-against: alpha-4
state: partial
updated-links: false
---

# Unattended Installs

In some cases, you might need to install one or multiple Umbraco instances automatically without having to run through the installation wizard to configure the instance.

You can use the **Unattended installs** feature to allow for quick installation and set up of Umbraco instances on something like Azure Web Apps.

This article will give you the details you need to install Umbraco unattended.

## Get the correct version of Umbraco

Since its beginning **Umbraco version 9** supports this feature.

> So it will be enough to get a clean instance from either the [NuGet feed](https://www.nuget.org/packages/UmbracoCms/) or download a zip file directly from [Downloads](https://our.umbraco.com/download).

Reviewer 2: As this entire article is marked for Umbraco 9, doesn't that render this section obsolete?
Or perhaps it would still make sense to show where to get a clean Umbraco instance? 🤔 

What do you think?

Author: I see your point! I would say, it would be nice to add a reference as to where to get a clean Umbraco instance, so the article is complete (we have all the info for attempting unattended install). Maybe something like this?
```suggestion
## Get clean install of Umbraco

In order to get a clean instance of Umbraco either visit the [NuGet feed](https://www.nuget.org/packages/UmbracoCms/) or download a zip file directly from [Downloads](https://our.umbraco.com/download).
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, I like it! 💪

## Configure your database

As you will not be running through the installation wizard when using the unattended installs feature, you need to manually tell Umbraco which database to use.

* Set up and configure a new database - see [Requirements](../Requirements/#hosting) for details.
* Add the connection string using configuration.

> Example in appsettings.json

Reviewer 2: Will the connection string always be in the appSetting.json file, or is this only an example of where it can be placed?

Author: Only an example. We mention in **Configuration options** that the users just need to pick their favourite way of specifying the following through configuration - the connection string and login information, as well as enable unattended install

```json
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "umbracoDbDSN": "server=localhost;database=UmbracoUnicore;user id=sa;password='P@ssw0rd'"
  }
}
```

## Enable the unattended installs feature

> The unattended installs feature is disabled by default and in order to enable it, you need to add the following JSON object to a JSON configuration source.

Reviewer 2: "... to a JSON configuration source."

Does that mean that it can be added to any JSON config file in the project?
Sounds like there's a lot of changes coming to config files 😄

Author: You are completely right :D 

Yes, it will be enough to add the JSON object to a JSON file that is used as a configuration source.

Reviewer 2: Super! Thanks for confirming.

Seems I have some studying to do regarding this new config-way 😄

```json
{
  "Umbraco": {
    "CMS": {
      "Unattended": {
        "InstallUnattended": true,
        "UnattendedUserName": "FRIENDLY_NAME",
        "UnattendedUserEmail": "EMAIL",
        "UnattendedUserPassword": "PASSWORD"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
Remember to set the value of `InstallUnattended` to `true`.

Alternatively you may set your configuration with Environment Variables or other means

> https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/configuration/?view=aspnetcore-5.0#environment-variables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively you may set your configuration with Environment Variables or other means. Learn more about this in the [Microsoft .Net Core config documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/configuration/?view=aspnetcore-5.0#environment-variables).
```

The keys for this would then be as follows:
```
Umbraco__CMS_Unattended__InstallUnattended
Umbraco__CMS_Unattended__UnattendedUserName
Umbraco__CMS_Unattended__UnattendedUserEmail
Umbraco__CMS_Unattended__UnattendedUserPassword
```

## Initialize the unattended install

After completing the steps above you can now initialize the installation by booting up the Umbraco instance.

Once it has completed, you should see the following when visiting the frontend of the site.

![Frontend of Umbraco site installed using the unattended installs feature](images/Unattended/final-screen.png)

## Configuration options

> Depending on your preferences, you can use any type of configuration to specify the connection string and login information, as well as enable unattended install. Due to the new configuration functionality, it is possible to read from all kinds of sources. One example can be using a JSON file or environment variables.  

Reviewer 2: Let's try to avoid referring to Umbraco 9 functionality as new - it will only be new in the very beginning 🙈 

```suggestion
Depending on your preferences, you can use any type of configuration to specify the connection string and login information, as well as enable unattended install. With the extending configuration functionality, it is possible to read from all kinds of sources. One example can be using a JSON file or environment variables.  
```

> **Program.cs** has a condition, which if met - *appsettings.Local.json* file will be added and configured as a configuration source. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Program.cs** has a condition, which if met, a *appsettings.Local.json* file will be added and configured as a configuration source. 
```

> **Program.cs** has a condition, which if met - *appsettings.Local.json* file will be added and configured as a configuration source. 

Reviewer 2: I might be missing something here, but why exactly is this mentioned? 🤔

Author: Because we will be able to add the example below in this file

```c#
#if DEBUG
  .ConfigureAppConfiguration(config
    => config.AddJsonFile(
      "appsettings.Local.json",
      optional: true,
      reloadOnChange: true))
#endif
```

Having intellisense will help you to easily add your connection string and information needed for the unattended install.

```json
{
    "ConnectionStrings": {
        "umbracoDbDSN": "server=localhost;database=UmbracoUnicore;user id=sa;password='P@ssw0rd'"
    },
    "Umbraco": {
        "CMS": {
            "Unattended": {
                "InstallUnattended": true,
                "UnattendedUserName": "FRIENDLY_NAME",
                "UnattendedUserEmail": "EMAIL",
                "UnattendedUserPassword": "PASSWORD"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

## More support

> We have added support for unattended installs with Name, Email & Password & Connection String as CLI params & in Visual Studio. There you can filling your information as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
We have added support for unattended installs with Name, Email and Password, and Connection String as CLI params, which are also available in Visual Studio. There you can fill in your information as follows:
```
```suggestion
We have added support for unattended installs with Name, Email & Password & Connection String as CLI params & in Visual Studio. There you can filling your information as follows:
```
```suggestion
We have added support for unattended installs with Name, Email and Password, and Connection String as CLI params, which are also available in Visual Studio. There you can fill in your information as follows:
```

> We have added support for unattended installs with Name, Email & Password & Connection String as CLI params & in Visual Studio. There you can filling your information as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
We have added support for unattended installs with Name, Email and Password, and Connection String as CLI params, which are also available in Visual Studio. There you can fill in your information as follows:
```

:::warning
    ????
:::
<!--- Would we have any warnings? below is what we had before
:::warning
When installing Umbraco using the unattended install feature, you will not be able to access the Umbraco backoffice once the installation has completed, as no password has been set for the default user.

Instead, you will need to configure an external login provider or set a password for the user in some other way.

Support for adding users through the unattended installation process will be added at a later point.
:::
-->

## Get the correct version of Umbraco

Since its beginning **Umbraco version 9** supports this feature.

So it will be enough to get a clean instance from either the [NuGet feed](https://www.nuget.org/packages/UmbracoCms/) or download a zip file directly from [Downloads](https://our.umbraco.com/download).

## Configure your database

As you will not be running through the installation wizard when using the unattended installs feature, you need to manually tell Umbraco which database to use.

* Set up and configure a new database - see [Requirements](../Requirements/#hosting) for details.
* Add the connection string using configuration.

Example:

```

> 

Reviewer 3: Missing an example

Reviewer 3: appsettings.development.json or in appsettings.json

```
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "umbracoDbDSN": "server=localhost;database=UmbracoUnicore;user id=sa;password='P@ssw0rd'"
  },
  "Umbraco": {
    "CMS": {
      "Unattended": {
        "InstallUnattended": true,
        "UnattendedUserName": "Warren Buckley Automation",
        "UnattendedUserEmail": "warren@umbraco.com",
        "UnattendedUserPassword": "password1234"        
      },
      "Hosting": {
        "Debug": true
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```

## Define the correct Umbraco version

In order for Umbraco to be installed correctly, you will need to specify the exact version number before initializing the installation.

The version needs to be specified using ...

Example:

```

> 

Reviewer 3: Missing example

Reviewer 3: There is no longer a need to set an equivalent in config/appsettings for this

```

## Enable the unattended installs feature

The unattended installs feature is disabled by default and in order to enable it, you need to add the following JSON object to a JSON configuration source.

```json
{
    "Unattended": {
                    "InstallUnattended": true,
                    "UnattendedUserName": "FRIENDLY_NAME",
                    "UnattendedUserEmail": "EMAIL",
                    "UnattendedUserPassword": "PASSWORD"
                }

> }

Reviewer 3: Update to show the full path of the JSON for appsettings

Reviewer 3: Maybe be nice to help users to give them the ENV Variable versions of these keys as well to use in Azure Portal etc
